Imagine 2.5 million years ago, The Stone Age, a time of hunter-gatherers. What did people eat? What was life like? The Paleo diet in combination with CrossFit attempts to answer those questions. The “Caveman Diet” is based on the types of food people ate during the Paleolithic era. In addition, CrossFit is a way for people to be active and less sedentary. In the Greensboro office Hope Isley does both Paleo and participates in CrossFit.
The Paleo diet consists of meat, vegetables, fruits, and nuts. Paleo avoids bread, grains, legumes, dairy, and stays away from processed foods. Also, organic fruits and vegetables are preferred along with grass-fed meats. When it comes to alcohol, most alcohol is not Paleo except for some ciders and tequila. Organic food and grass-fed meats can often be more expensive than traditional food, but that does not mean the diet will be costly. In fact, according to Hope she saves a lot of money by making her own meals and not going out to eat often. By preparing her own meals she can eat healthier and know exactly what is in her food and how it is prepared. While the diet may sound very restrictive there are still plenty of delicious foods to enjoy.
On the diet Hope enjoys a variety of food ranging from baked salmon to things like sweet potato fries. She has gotten a lot of Paleo recipes off of the internet from sites like Pinterest to make meatloaf, BLT’s wrapped in lettuce instead of bread, and even made her own ketchup and mayonnaise. When going to the grocery store she avoids the center aisles, because that is where most of the processed and non-Paleo items are. On the outside aisles are the fruits and vegetables and other fresh food. Even though there is a variety of food available, how does one decide what is Paleo?
When Hope has a question about whether a food is Paleo there are two things she does. She either asks her CrossFit coach or does some research on her own to find out. A few tips are that if the food is packaged and has a long shelf life it is not likely Paleo. Another way to tell is by reading the ingredients of the food. If you can’t pronounce or don’t know what one or more of the ingredients are then it is doubtful the food is Paleo. Now that you know what food we can take a look at how exercise fits in.
CrossFit is an exercise program that is all about high intensity workouts, incorporating movements from gymnastics, and also weightlifting. The high intensity workouts are very short ranging from five to twelve minutes and are very tiring. In that time frame you are attempting to do as many repetitions as you can. Every time Hope goes to her CrossFit gym they are trying out new workouts and rarely are the same one repeated twice. The only time they would repeat a workout is when they are doing benchmarks. They will do an exercise at the beginning of the month and then do that same exercise at the end of the moth to measure your progress. The benchmarks also coincide with the thirty day challenge which incorporates exercise with the Paleo diet.
In July of 2013 Hope did her first 30 day challenge and shortly will be participating in another one. The challenge is to do CrossFit and eat 100% Paleo. Before the challenge begins Hope will get with her coach and go through a diet plan that is customized to fit her. Since doing Paleo she has lost some weight and feels better overall than she did before eating Paleo. She does not always eat 100% Paleo, but tries to stick to eating around 90% Paleo. Even though she may not be eating 100% Paleo all the time she believes that overall she is still healthier than she was before and will continue to be Paleo for the rest of her life. If you would like to learn more about Paleo Hope recommends checking out the book, “The Paleo coach” by Jason Seib which explains in detail about the Paleo diet.
