At the end of the last year, the Code Challenge saw some of its biggest prizes since its inception in June 2013. The winners of the end of the year challenges won a Nexus 7, a Kindle Fire HDX, and a Microsoft Surface. Not only did the end of the year challenge have some of the best prizes, but it also had some of the toughest and most interesting challenges. And although the rewards had gotten better, overall participation had been waning. To combat this, we had decided to change the format of the challenge itself. No longer would the challenge just give out monthly prizes, but also seasonal (~ 3 month) ones too. In addition to this, anyone who merely participated and completed a challenge would be eligible to win the end of season prizes.
Previously, the Code Challenge was on a monthly winner schedule and there would be 3 winners per month for each challenge level (i.e. Bronze, Silver, Gold). With the new season format, winners of the monthly challenges would receive a less significant prize, but everyone who completed a challenge would get a ticket to be entered into a larger raffle. At the end of the season, the raffle drawing would occur and 3 people would be picked to be declared winners for that season. Also, due to the fact that the Code Challenge was on a seasonal schedule, the prizes could be much larger. For this first season we had an Xbox One, PS4, and Beats Wireless Headphones up for grabs.
Across the three months of challenges we had a total of 704 submissions from 25 users. While not every submission would grant a ticket, we had a significant number of raffle tickets for this season. The season had officially ended after the March set of challenges and on April 15th we were able to do the raffle and officially announce the winners (see the YouTube video below).
The high participation rate was very exciting to see for a team that had been losing faith in the project. With this resurgence in the number of users doing the Code Challenge, the Code Challenge team is very excited to see the participation and prizes for further seasons. In addition to this new format, we had asked participants and non-participants to take a survey to further help the challenge. The feedback we had received was great and will definitely help us moving forward.
Lastly, if you have participated in any one of the challenges we appreciate your time and effort greatly and hope that you will want to participate in a future challenge. Keep checking the Code Challenge Site for any other updates and any announcements regarding end of season prizes.
